Hi there. In this video we are going
to look at the grep command which is
a Unix command that uses what we call
regular expressions to look through files and search
through them for a particular keyword or wild
card based keyword. We're not gonna go into
details about what regular expressions are, although I'll
I'll show you a couple of a couple
of different things about them. There are many
many resources online to find out more about
regular expressions and searching with grep, etcetera. The
basic idea is that you, you say grep
and then some pattern which is generally in
either single quotes or double quotes depending on,
how you're doing the search and then some,
files that you wanna search. Okay. So for
instance, let's look in here. I have a
file called unit testing dot txt and this
is available at this this path on the
website, a f s slash AFS slash IR
slash CLASS slash CS107 slash samples slash assign
zero and it is a file, basically if
we look at it, it is a file
that is from the Wikipedia article on unit
testing, which, is not a bad thing to
learn anyway. But if we wanna find something,
so in here I noticed that, often it
says unit. So let's actually search for unit
in this file. We type grep and then
unit and then the name unit testing dot
txt. What it does, it lists all the
lines that unit falls on. Okay? And so
it, it's just looking for unit itself, it
doesn't really, it doesn't have to have spaces
around it, it doesn't have to be a
single word, it can be part of a
word, etcetera. But if the u n I
t is in there and by the way
it's lowercase in this case, then, you will
have it will find it. Okay. So let's
find something that it grep for something that
it won't find. Grep for, let's say obtain
with a an uppercase o on here. Now
I see an obtain right here but, because
I'm doing uppercase o, it will, not find
anything. Just it happens to be no other
places in the file that have an uppercase
o obtain as well. So you can do
searches with various wild cards. The two wild
cards that we care about are the period
and the asterisk. Okay, and here's here's how
they work. Okay, period matches any character. Right?
So if I wanted to find, let's say,
let's say all words that start with t
h e. Okay, all words that start with
t h, well, let's say all words that
have t h e and then some character
after that. Okay, then what we can do
is we can say grep t h e
period and then unit testing and it will
find everywhere where it says The with something
after it. Okay? Let's see if I can
find an example of where this might, not
necessarily the best example, but, if we type
grep and then a dot dot, right, and
then unit testing, right, it will find anything
where we have a followed by any two
things, any two letters, characters, whatever. Okay? So,
a and n is right there. Let's look
for, let's look for something that is a
little bit more interesting, maybe something like, oh
I don't know, OF period. Right? So grep
OF period, blue OF period period, okay and
then unit testing. That will do OF and
then two characters of anything else. So we'll
find all the of's in here but we'll
also find often, it will also find anywhere
else where it starts with or it has
two anythings after the OF. Okay? If we
have an asterisk, it will find zero or
more repeats of the character that follows it.
Okay? So for instance, grep and then a
b star will match anything that has a
b and then any number of b's after
that. Okay? So it will match, a actually,
will say any number, so zero or more.
So it will match anything anything with an
a, but then anything with any number of
b's after it. Okay. So let's actually try
something a little more interesting here. Let's try
something like EV star. Probably not gonna find
too many multiple v's. Let me see something.
How about DIF star? You'll find anything with
oops. By the way, I did this right
now. I forgot to type the filename and
now I'm in here like, what's going on?
If you ever get stuck in a program
like this, hit the control hold down control
and type c and it will break out
of the file. Okay. So let's do this
with the correct unit testing file there and
what did I do? I said DIF and
not any number of F's after that. Right?
So here's DIFF, okay, and this line, let's
see where's the DIF here, or sorry, DI
and any number of Fs. So like in
this one, do we have any D, there's
the DIF here, how about this one, D,
there we go, DI and then any number
of f's after that. Well, is any number
so d I any number of f's after
that. Okay? So you can use, often we
see it, used with a we see them
used together the period and the asterisk like
something like this. Grep for, let's say, oh,
don't know, c o n and then dot
star and then s. Right? So what this
means is it will match c o n
and then any number of any characters zero
or more and then an s. Right? So
if I do that and do that in
unit testing, right, it will find that. So
let's see. C o n c o n
and then any number of characters until there's
an s right there. So it's matching that
for instance. In fact it's actually matching that
because it's what we call a greedy match
and it matches all the way to the
last possible thing that it can on a
particular line. Okay? So you can test all
the things you want using unit testing or
any other file and, you should practice using
grep, in, to find various, things. Now, man
file on grep is pretty large, it shows
lots of different ways to do things. Okay?
But for instance there's other ones like grep
and then if I put things in brackets
and I say a b and then, I
don't know, e like that, it will match
and it will match anything that goes a
e or anything that goes b e like
that. Forgot to do the unit testing again
and there we go. So we said a
so there's a BE right there. Right? There's
another BE right there. Let's see we said
it was going to be AE so see
if we can find some AEs in here.
There's probably more, let's see what does this
one have? I don't see any Bs in
this one so is there an AE anywhere
here? I might be missing it. Is there
a B in that one? Yes, there's a
B in that line. So that's that one.
There's a B there, think B is more
likely than other things but let's see more
BE's, maybe I didn't pick the best example
here, lots of BE's but it would also
search for find anything that has an AE
in it as well. So that's how we
do that. In fact, let's let's just see
which one just if we do just AE
then we'll find anywhere. Well, there are no
just AEs in that file. Guess that was
a bad example. Let's try another one. AE
or DE or sorry, DE or BE. There
we go. It'll find lots of ones with,
with both of those and there's probably some
DE's in there too. Let's find out where
the the DE's are. There we go. There's
lots of ones right there, deployment environment, etcetera.
So that's how grep works. Grep is really
important if you look up regular expressions, you'll
find out all the different ways to do
searches using things like for instance, what if
I wanted to say grep and then start
the line. If you use uppercase caret like
that or caret symbol like that and then
u will find all word all, it will
find all places in the file that start
with u, uppercase u like that. Right? If
I did the same thing with uppercase t
it would do that. You can also say
find something at the end of the file
which is the dollar sign character so let's
find all lines that end with H. Right,
none, end with H. Let's see, it looks
like this file may actually have extra characters
in there. Yeah, it looks like the file
may have spaces at the end of it
too. So that's a little harder to find
but let's find out what lines end with
space. There we go, whole bunch of them.
A whole bunch of lines end with space.
So, so that's how how grep works and
you can, use it to do search through
files and it is, a great little tool
for that. Thanks.